Computer Basics
Assignment Solution

1. What is a Computer?
Ans: Computer is an electronic device for storing and processing data, typically in binary form, according to instructions given to it in a variable program. 
2. What is RAM?
Ans: RAM which stands for Random Access Memory, is a hardware device generally located on the 
motherboard of a computer and acts as an internal memory of the CPU. It allows CPU store data, program, and program results when you switch on the computer.
3. Where is data stored in a computer?
Ans: CPU
4. What is that input device used to type text and numbers on a document in the computer system?
Ans: Keyboard
5. What are the output devices?
Ans: Output devices are: Monitor, Printer, etc.
6. Which is the input device that allows a user to move the cursor or pointer on the screen?
Ans: Mouse
7. Which language is directly understood by the computer without a translation program?
Ans: Machine Language or machine code, is a low-level language composed of binary digits.
8. What are Input devices?
Ans: Input devices are: Keyboard, Mouse, Joystick.







Fundamentals of Java
 Assignment Solutions
1.	What Ps Programming language?
 Ans: Programming is a practice that strengthens our capacity for logical thought and problem-solving. It teaches us how to carry out a task with the aid of software or a computer program. So, to put it simply, programming is the process of using computer language to bring a solution to a problem into practice. 
 2. Why do we need a programming language?
 Ans: Programming Language- it is vocabulary and a collection of rules that command a computer, devices, applications to work according to the written codes. The programming language enables us to write efficient programs and develop online solutions such as- mobile applications, web applications, and games, etc. Programming is used to automate, maintain, assemble, measure and interpret the processing of the data and information. It helps in accelerating the input and output of the devices or applications.
3. Features of java 
 Object-Oriented - The features of object-oriented programming are supported by Java. Its object model is straightforward and flexible.
 Platform independent - Because Java and C++ are platform independent, application programs created in one Operating system can run on any other Operating system. C and C++, however, are platform dependent languages, making it impossible for application programs created in one Operating system to run in any other Operating system.
 Simple - Because Java incorporates many C/C++ capabilities, it is simple to understand.
Secure - Java offers a variety of defences against malware and viruses. It guarantees that neither damage nor security will be compromised.
 Portable - We have the idea of portability in Java. Java allows the same software to run on various platforms.
 Robust - It assists us in identifying potential errors as soon as feasible during program development.
 Multi-threaded - Java's multithreading programming capability enables you to create a program that executes multiple tasks concurrently.
 Distributed -Java maintains the TCP/IP protocol and is therefore suitable for distributed Internet environments.
 4. What Ps an Object? 
Ans: An object is an entity with state and behaviour, such as a chair, bike, marker, pen, table, or car. It could be intellectual or physical (tangible and intangible). The banking system is an illustration of an intangible entity.


5. What Ps a Class?  
Ans: A class is a collection of items with similar characteristics. It serves as a model or blueprint from which things can be made. It makes sense as a whole. It cannot be bodily.
6.Explain about the java Main() method?
The main() method is the entry point of every Java program. It is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class. The main() method doesn't return anything, its return type is void. The main() method can contain code to execute or call other methods, and it can be placed in any class that's part of a program.
public static void main(String[] args) {
}
The args parameter is an array of strings that can be used to pass arguments to the program when it is run. You can use the args array to access the arguments from within the main() method.
For example, the following code prints the first argument to the program:
public static void main(String[] args) {
  System.out.println(args[0]);
}
The main() method is the first method that is called when a Java program is run. It is responsible for initializing the program and starting its execution. The main() method can contain any code that you want to execute when your program starts.
You can use the main() method to call other methods in your program. You can also use it to execute code that is specific to your program.
The main() method is a required part of every Java program. If you do not include a main() method, your program will not run.









Java Variables and Data types
Assignment Solutions
1.	What is statically typed and Dynamically typed Programming Language? 
Ans: Statically typed: if the memory of the variable is given during the compilation time itself then such types of programming languages are called as “Statically typed”.
 Eg: C,C++,Java
 Dynamically typed: If  the memory of the variable is given during the execution time itself then such types of programming languages are called as “dynamically typed”.
        Eg: Python,PHP,JavaScript
2.	What is the variable in Java?
Ans: A variable is the title of a reserved region allocated in memory. In other words, it may be referred to as the name of a memory location.
 It is a container that holds the value while the Java Program is executed.
 Each variable should be given a unique name to indicate the storage area.
 A variable is assigned with a data type(we will learn about it after this topic). 
Syntax for Declaring a Variable: 
Type variable_name [= value];
 The variable_name is the name of a variable. We can initialise the variable by specifying an equal sign and a value  (initialization i.e. assigning an initial value, is optional). However, the compiler never assigns a default value to an uninitialized local variable in Java.
3. How To Assign a Value To Variable?
Ans: We use assign operator (=) to assign a value to a variable. For Example,
  number = 10; 
flag = true;
 name = "Code Pumpkin"; 
We can assign a value to a variable any number of times in Java, but when we assign a new value to a variable, the old value will be overwritten. 
 For example,  in the first code snippet, we have first assigned a value 10 to the number and then modified its value by performing the number+20 operation and assigning it back to the variable number by.
4. What are Primitive Data types in Java? 
Ans: byte, short, int, long, float, double, char, String, Boolean.
5. What are the Identifiers in Java? 
Ans: Identifiers in Java are symbolic names used for identification. They can be a class name, variable name, method name, package name, constant name, and more. However, In Java , There are some reserved words that can not be used as an identifier.

5. List the Operators in Java?
 Ans: Operators in Java
 Arithmetic Operators
 Relational Operators
 Logical Operators
Assignment Operators
Unary Operators
 Bitwise Operators
6. Explain about Increment and Decrement operators and give an examples.
 Ans: Increment and Decrement Operators in Java are used to increase or decrease the value by 1. For example, Incremental operator ++ is useful to increase the existing variable value by 1 (i = i + 1). Moreover, the decrement operator – – is useful to decrease or subtract the current value by 1 (i = i – 1). The syntax of both increment and decrement operators in Java Programming to prefix or postfix is
 Increment Operator E ++x or x++
 Decrement Operator --x or x-
